---
title: He Who Cleans My Glasses
description: I put my glasses on a nightstand before I sleep. My father silently
  enters my room with feather footsteps, picks up my glasses, cleans them with
  his microfiber cloth, and puts them back.
author: Anirudh Bidari
date: 2023-10-29T15:04:11.953Z
tags:
  - post
  - featured
image: /assets/blog/hj.png
imageAlt: Stuti with her baba
to: His Father
---
I put my glasses on a nightstand before I sleep. My father silently enters my room with feather footsteps, picks up my glasses, cleans them with his microfiber cloth, and puts them back. He does this every night after he thinks I’ve fallen asleep. But I watch him, cleaning them constantly until the last remaining, barely noticeable dirt is gone off the lenses. My father scrubbed my skin during the shower till I was 13. He used to start with my left hand, then my stomach, right hand, neck, back, left leg, right leg, and toes. Now, I am 200 km away from my father. But I can see him still coming to my room every night and cleaning my glasses.

I was 7. The doctor suggested I wear glasses, not because I had poor eyesight but because the light coming from every object hit my eye like a bullet and gave me a constant headache. My father bought the one with a rectangular-shaped, black frame made of plastic. From that day, I started seeing the world through rectangular-shaped lenses. From that day, my father started coming to my room to clean my glasses every night after I slept. A few months later, when I was hit by a motorbike speeding through the highway when I ran, freeing myself from the grip of my mother’s hand, to cross the road and meet with my father who was waving at me from the other side of the road, I saw death with a blurry, hazy vision before I passed out. That night in the hospital, my father had come up to my bed and cleaned my glasses. I was probably 13 when I had my first encounter with insanity. I saw it in a woman who was screaming and cursing another woman in the street with a sickle in her hand. Her clothes were torn. Saliva drooled from her mouth. That night, my father entered my room and cleaned my glasses. When I saw my father fight my uncle who had grabbed my aunt’s neck, pushed her against the wall, and choked her to unconsciousness, he later entered my room and cleaned my glasses. When I was teased and bullied by my friends because I stuttered with every word and I slept at the edge, looking at the ripples made by the tear pond, my father entered my room and cleaned my glasses. When I failed my examination and I saw failure dancing in front of me with its raw-boned skeleton, my father came up to my bed that night and cleaned my glasses. When I saw my insecurity slowly taking a thick, vibrant form of skin and bones from vapor, my father entered my room and cleaned my glasses. When I saw my curiosity lying naked, with a bruised body, immersed in the guilt of its own existence, my father took out a microfiber cloth from his pocket and cleaned my glasses. Still, when I see my ego standing upright with its unnatural falsity, I can hear my father’s quiet footsteps towards my nightstand and the rubbing of my lenses with his clean, honest microfiber cloth.

My father still bathes me every week, as if I am a 7-year-old kid. My skin carries the dirt of my disappointments, hostility, anger, and pessimism, and with every phone call, he applies soap of his laughter, hopefulness, and confidence to cleanse the dirt off my skin. He rubs the skin of my left hand, removing the dirt from fear. He rubs the skin of my stomach, removing the dirt from intoxication and addiction. He rubs the skin of my right hand, removing the dirt from the criticisms. He rubs the skin of my neck, removing the dirt from my distorted self-image. He rubs the skin of my legs, removing the dirt from fatigue. He rubs the skin of my toes, removing the dirt from the difficulties.

I used to shy away as a child when my father insisted I let him rub my skin to remove all the dirt of the week as he was afraid I couldn’t do it well myself. I used to get angry when he used to knock on the door while I was showering. But now, as I reflect back, I guess the urge to bathe your child even when the child is perfectly capable of doing it themselves is a metaphor for the whole parenthood. Throughout your life, your parents try to cleanse the dirt of the outside world that gets attached to the skin of your body. The obsession of my father to clean my glasses every night perhaps nods to the same metaphor.